Entra ID:

Collect the Public IP of the Entra ID instance.
Ensure secure LDAP is enabled in Entra ID and "Allow Secure LDAP access over the internet" is also enabled.

Add Inbound Security Rule to Network security group for Virtual Subnet on Entra ID:

Source: IP
Source IP address/CIDR ranges: Firewall IP / 32
Source Port Ranges: *
Destination: Any
Service: Custom
Destination port ranges: 636
Protocol: TCP
Action: Allow
Priority: 311
Name: Allow LDAPSInbound

DNS:
Set up DNS resolver from Public IP to ldaps.{domain name} where {domain name} matches the domain name on Entra ID.
Test if you ping ldaps.{domain name} does it resolve to  the public ip?
On the OPNsense device, go to System - Settings - General, and set the DNS servers (Google / Cloudflare are fine)
Untick "Allow DNS server list to be ovveridden by DHCP/PPP on WAN" and tick "Do not use the local DNS Service as a nameserver for this system".


User set up:
Great a VPN security group on Entra ID and add all VPN users into security group.
Entra ID requires a new type of password hash. Force users to update their password if they haven't changed it since September 2023.
Great a bind service user - this user should only have read access to Entra and where possible have a non-expiring password???

LDAP Certs:
Secure LDAP (LDAPs) and OPNsense require a private and public key pair. The private key is uploaded into Entra ID's section, be sure its set to *.{domain name} where {domain name}


With the public key, open it in Notepad and extract all he information. This is required on OPNsense.

On OPNsense creatre a new Authority in: System - Trust - Authorities. 
Press add
Set a descriptive name (OPNsense LDAP -> Entra or similar)
Method: Import an exsisting Certificate Authority
Certificate data: Paste in the certificate data from the public key
Leave Certficate private key and serial for next certificate as empty.
Save the Authority.

### openvpn
OpenVPN Certs:

On OPNsense create a new Authority in: System - Trust - Authorities. 
Press add
Set a descriptive name ()
Method: Create a internal Certificate Authority
Internal Certificate Authority
Key Type: RSA
Key length (bits): 2048
Digest Algorithm: SHA256
Lifetime (days)	:825 *** See how we want to manage this
Distinguished name
Country Code : GB (Great Britain)
State or Province : UK	
City : City firewall is hosted in
Organization : Company
Email Address :  Email address for cert
Common Name : CA- {VPN Name}

Create a server certificate:
System - Trust - Certificates
Method: Create an internal Certificate
Descriptive name: {VPN Name} Server Certificate 

Internal Certificate
Certificate authority : CA- {VPN Name} (From above)
Type: Server Certificate
Key Type: RSA
Key length (bits): 2048
Digest Algorithm: SHA256
Lifetime (days)	: 1095
Private key location: Save on this firewall

Distinguished name *** Set this the same as above
Country Code : GB (Great Britain)
State or Province : UK	
City : City firewall is hosted in
Organization : Company
Email Address :  Email address for cert
Common Name :  	{VPN Name} Server Certificate 




Set up LDAP on OPNsense by going to system - access - server
Press add
Give it a descriptive name (Microsoft Intra Connect for instance)
Type: LDAP
Hostname or IP address : ldaps.{domain name}
Port Value: 636
Transport: SSL - Encrypted
Protocol Version - 3
Bind Credentails: 
: User DN:  email address for bind account
: Password: password for bind account

Search scope: Entire Subtree
Base DN: DC=domain name, DC=co, DC=uk 
Authenication containers: press select: Chose what containers in AD Users are located.
Extended Query: Enter the restriction, to stop everyone syncing over *** IE:  &(memberOf=CN=MyGroup,OU=AADDC Users,DC=cosco,DC=net,DC=uk)  
User naming attribute:  UserPrincipalName

Read properties: Unticked
Synchronize groups: Unticked
Constraint groups: Unticked
Limit groups: Nothing selected
Automatic user creation: Unticked
Match case insensitive: Ticked

Then test.
Go to System - Access - Tester
Select the Authenication Server as the one you created above.
Enter email and password of user that match the Authenication container/s and extended query. 
We should get a success message. If error: User DN not found : The email address does not exist in the Authenication Container or extended query.
The following mean incorrect credentials: 
Authentication failed.
error: 80090308: LdapErr: DSID-0C090569, comment: AcceptSecurityContext error, data 52e, v4563
ldap_error: Invalid credentials

OpenVPN settings:
Vpn - OpenVPN - Servers - Add

General Information
Description: VPN Name
Server Mode: Remote Access ( User Auth )
Backend for authenication: The LDAP server we configured
Enforce Local group: (none)
Protocol: UDP
Device Mode: tun
Interface: WAN or firewall IP.
Local Port: Whatever Port you want. OpenVPN's default is 1194

Cryptographic Settings
TLS Authentication: Enabled - Authenication & Encryption
TLS Shared Key: Automatically generate a shared TLS authentication key: ticked
Peer Certificate Authority: CA- {VPN Name} (From above)
Peer Certificate Revocation List: None
Server Certificate: {VPN Name} Server Certificate 
Encryption algorithm (deprecated): 
Auth Digest Algorithm:
Certificate Depth


Tunnel Settings
IPv4 Tunnel Network: 10.10.0.0/24
IPv6 Tunnel Network: Empty
Redirect Gateway: Unticked	
IPv4 Local Network	192.168.1.0/24
IPv6 Local Network: Empty
IPv4 Remote Network: Empty
IPv6 Remote Network: Empty
Concurrent connections: Empty	
Compression: No Preference
Type-of-Service: Unticked	
Inter-client communication: Unticked	
Duplicate Connections: Ticked	

Client Settings
Dynamic IP: Ticked	
Topology: Unticked	
DNS Default Domain: Unticked	
DNS Domain search list: Unticked	
DNS Servers: Unticked	
Force DNS cache update: Unticked	
Prevent DNS leaks: Unticked	
NTP Servers: Unticked	
NetBIOS Options: Unticked
Client Management Port: Unticked

Advanced configuration
Advanced: Empty
Verbosity level: 1 (default)
Renegotiate time: 0
Force CSO Login Matching: Unticked	


